# Get started with Freedom UI in the mobile app | Creatio Academy

**Category:** applications **Difficulty:** intermediate **Word Count:** 601
**URL:**
https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/mobile/basics/mobile-application-freedom-interface

## Description

After synchronizing with the Creatio server you can start working with the
mobile application (Fig. 1).

## Key Concepts

section, lookup, mobile app, notification, contact, account

## Use Cases

building applications, custom development, API integration, system
administration, user management

## Content

All Creatio products

On this page

After synchronizing with the Creatio server you can start working with the
mobile application (Fig. 1).

Fig. 1 Mobile application workplace

![Fig. 1 Mobile application workplace](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_main_wizard_0.png)

Tap
![btn_group_mobile_menu.png](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/btn_group_mobile_menu.png)
to access the main page (Fig. 2) and move between sections of the mobile
application.

Fig. 2 Main page of the mobile application

![Fig. 2 Main page of the mobile application](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_main_menu.png)

The **main page** of the mobile application contains a list of sections
configured in the Mobile Application Wizard as well as the Approvals section.

The **section list** of the mobile application (Fig. 3) contains a list of
section records. Configure the list and display method in the main application.

Fig. 3 Account section list of the mobile application

![Fig. 3 Account section list of the mobile application](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_list.png)

To open the record, tap it in the list.

## Search records​

To search for a record in a section, enter the search parameters (for example, a
fragment of a company name) in the **Search** field (Fig. 4). The search is
performed in the current section and by the columns that are visible in the
list.

For example, enter a fragment of an account name in the **Accounts** section,
and in a couple of seconds, the result corresponding to the search parameters
will be displayed.

Fig. 4 Search in the section list

![Fig. 4 Search in the section list](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_search.png)

To display all the records of a section, clear the search field.

## Add records​

To create a new record, tap the
![btn_add_from_list.png](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/btn_add_from_list.png)
button in the section list. Fill out the page and save the changes.

## Edit records​

You can edit data when viewing it. You can make changes to the page fields and
embedded columns. For example, to change the name of the company where the
contact works:

1. **Open** the **Contacts** section of the mobile application.

2. **Tap** the **Account** column (Fig. 10).

Fig. 5 Edit a contact's Account column

![Fig. 5 Edit a contact's Account column](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_swap.png)

3. **Select a value** from the lookup.

## Run actions​

Tap
![btn_mobile_card_menu.png](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/btn_mobile_card_menu.png)
in the lower part of the record to access the section actions menu. (Fig. 13).

Fig. 6 Action menu in the Contacts section

![Fig. 6 Action menu in the Contacts section](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_section_menu.png)

## Approve records​

The approval functionality of Creatio desktop applications is available in the
mobile app as well. After a record is submitted for approval in the main Creatio
application, the assignee can approve or reject the record in the mobile app. To
do this, use the **Approvals** section.

The **Approvals** section lists all records submitted for approval, including
records from sections normally unavailable in the mobile app (Fig. 14). For
example, you can approve a contract and an order using your mobile app, even if
the app is not configured to display the **Contracts** and **Orders** sections.
Learn more about setting up mobile app sections:
[Mobile app setup](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/no-code-customization/category/mobile-app-setup).

Fig. 7 Records submitted for approval in the mobile Approvals section

![Fig. 7 Records submitted for approval in the mobile Approvals section](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/get_started_with_mobile_app_freedom_Ui/scr_mobile_overview_visas_list.png)

Approvals require an active Internet connection.

To process an approval:

1. **Open** the **Approvals** section of the mobile application.

2. Swipe the record **left** to **approve a record**.

3. Swipe the record **right** to **reject a record**.

A few seconds after the swipe, you can **cancel** your approval or rejection
using the cancel button in the notification at the bottom of the app.

As a result, the record will be approved or rejected. The app will display a
notification about a successful approval processing to the approver. The
approval status will be changed to “Positive” or “Negative”. The record will be
no longer listed in the **Approvals** section.

note

Instead of swiping, you can tap a record in the **Approvals** section to open
the approval page, then tap **Approve** or **Reject**.

---

## See also​

[Mobile application FAQ](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=1668)

[Get started with the mobile app setup](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=1945)

- Search records
- Add records
- Edit records
- Run actions
- Approve records
- See also
