# Work with the mobile app calendar | Creatio Academy

**Category:** applications **Difficulty:** intermediate **Word Count:** 699
**URL:**
https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/mobile/basics/work-with-the-calendar

## Description

The Tasks section in the mobile application is synchronized with the primary
Creatio application and can be used both offline and online (Fig. 1).

## Key Concepts

section, dashboard, mobile app, case

## Use Cases

## Content

All Creatio products

On this page

The **Tasks** section in the mobile application is synchronized with the primary
Creatio application and can be used both offline and online (Fig. 1).

Tasks can be displayed either as a virtual organizer or a drop-down list.
**Calendar** mode displays the tasks for which you are responsible and those in
which you were added as a participant. **List** mode displays only the tasks for
which you are responsible. You can select the view (drop-down list or calendar)
in the upper area of the workspace area.

Fig. 1 Tasks section of the mobile application

![Fig. 1 Tasks section of the mobile application](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/work_with_mobile_app_calendar/scr_activity_section_list.png)

Depending on the size of your mobile device screen, the default calendar view is
for the current day or the current week. If necessary, you can change the
display period of the schedule.

note

The calendar view period can differ due to the work limitations of different
mobile devices. For tablets, the schedule in the **Tasks** section can be
changed to weekly or daily mode. For mobile phones, the schedule is always
displayed daily.

Tap anywhere on the blank calendar space and swipe right to go to the next day
or left to go to the previous day.

The current time is indicated using an orange line.

In the calendar area, all activities are displayed as rectangular blocks whose
height corresponds to the duration of the activity.

On the left side of the calendar area, time intervals are displayed.

Activities in the calendar view are highlighted using different colors depending
on their status and due date.

- Activities are highlighted red when their due time has already passed and they
  are not in the final state yet.

- Activities are highlighted blue when their due time has not passed and they
  are not in the final state yet (scheduled or in progress)

- Activities are highlighted grey if they are in the final state (completed or
  canceled).

## View someone else's calendar​

You can only view the calendar of another owner in online mode.

To view the calendar of another owner:

1. **Tap** the user image in top right (Fig. 2)

Fig. 2 Change owner to view the calendar

![Fig. 2 Change owner to view the calendar](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/work_with_mobile_app_calendar/scr_activity_change_profile.png)

2. **Select an owner** in the drop-down list.

3. Tap the **My activities** button in the owner's drop-down list to **get back
   to your calendar**.

## Add a task​

To create a new task in the **Tasks** section, tap the
![btn_add_from_list.png](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/btn_add_from_list.png)
button. Then, fill out the required information and tap **Save**.

When working in the mobile application you can create multi-day tasks (tasks
lasting for more than one day).

To create a multi-day task:

1. **Highlight a task** in the calendar.

2. **Drag a task** to the panel that contains the days of the week.

3. **Hold the small circle** on the corner of the activity bar
   ![btn_mobile_end_activity.png](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/btn_mobile_end_activity.png)
   and drag it to expand the activity to the required range
   ([Fig. 3](https://academy.creatio.com#XREF_22178_227)).

Fig. 3 Create a multi-day task

![Fig. 3 Create a multi-day task](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/scr_activity_create_activity_days.png)

## Task actions​

You can change the duration of an activity. To do this, tap the activity, hold
the circle at the corner of the activity
(![btn_mobile_change_time.png](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/btn_mobile_change_time.png)),
and drag it to the required time. To move an activity to another time, drag it
to the required time interval.

To change the task status, go to the activity edit mode and select the required
value in the **Status** field.

If you need to mark a task as completed, tap the button in the calendar and then
tap the
![btn_mobile_change_status.png](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/btn_mobile_change_status.png)
button.

To return a task to its initial state, select it in the calendar and tap
![btn_mobile_change_status_work.png](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/btn_mobile_change_status_work.png)
(Fig. 4).

Fig. 4 Change status of a completed task

![Fig. 4 Change status of a completed task](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Platform_basics/work_with_mobile_app_calendar/scr_activity_change_activity_done_0.png)

The actions menu is used for **copying** and **deleting** tasks. To view the
options, highlight a task and tap
![btn_mobile_card_menu.png](https://academy.creatio.com/guides/sites/en/files/documentation/user/en/mobile_app/BPMonlineHelp/chapter_mobile_activity_section/btn_mobile_card_menu.png).

When copying a task from the calendar, the participants are also copied. When
copying from the activity page, a new page is created where you can fill out all
the required information.

In the online mode, you can also display **activities created in the main
Creatio application**. To do this, use the **Refresh** action.

---

## See also​

[Work with service cases in the mobile app](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=2315)

[Work with dashboards in the mobile app](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=2314)

[Mobile application FAQ](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=1668)

- View someone else's calendar
- Add a task
- Task actions
- See also
