# Service Creatio overview | Creatio Academy

**Category:** development **Difficulty:** beginner **Word Count:** 1336 **URL:**
https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/overview/service-creatio-overview

## Description

Service Creatio is a multi-channel customer service platform. Use it to
establish a single service center for internal and external customers.

## Key Concepts

business process, workflow, freedom ui, section, detail, lookup, dashboard,
integration, database, operation

## Use Cases

building applications, custom development, API integration, system
administration, user management

## Content

Version: 8.3Service

On this page

**Service Creatio** is a multi-channel customer service platform. Use it to
establish a single service center for internal and external customers.

Service Creatio functionality is based on the Studio Creatio no-code platform.
The composable architecture streamlines app development and customization. With
drag-and-drop UI designer, employees that do not have a technical background can
build and customize full fledged business solutions in no time without any
coding. Creatio platform also includes a comprehensive business process
designer. Service Creatio naturally synergizes with other Creatio apps and
products as well as ready-made solutions on
[Creatio Marketplace](https://marketplace.creatio.com/).

Currently, the product includes the following **composable apps** :

- Customer 360
- Productivity
- Knowledge Base
- Case Management

## Features​

- 360° customer view

- Multi-channel service

- Case management

- Knowledge management

- Activity management

- Service level management

- Unified service center

- Service efficiency evaluation

- AI tools

- Creatio Marketplace plugins, addons and templates

Marketing Creatio includes all technologies and tools available in Creatio
platform. Learn more:
[Platform overview](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=1).

### 360° customer view​

Service Creatio lets you maintain a single database of contacts and accounts.
You can draw up a complete overview of customer journey through your support
center, including contact details, available services, and the entire
interaction history. Use this data to build a comprehensive view of the customer
and help you maintain optimal customer relationships.

The "**Accounts** " section contains information about **companies** : your
customers, partners, contractors, and suppliers. Use it to access the means of
communications, profiles of the contact persons, the industry, the structure and
relationships of the organization.

The "**Contacts** " section provides full information on the **contact persons**
of customers and partners, employees of your company, private customers, as well
as other business and personal contacts. Use it to access communication options,
service history, and more.

Service Creatio tools let you **segment your customer base** in any way you
need. For example, you can add priority customers to favorites or group
companies by industry and employee number, service level and case rate for quick
access.

Fig. 1 Contact page

![Fig. 1 Contact page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_contact_page.png)

Learn more:
[Customer 360](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/customer-360).

### Multi-channel service​

Service Creatio is invaluable for **communication**. Call or message your
customers using multiple channels directly from Creatio and keep the history of
customer interaction in one place. This helps to establish personalized
communication and identify the customer regardless of the currently used
communication channel.

Calls, emails, sections available for external users, messengers, and other
means of communication are always available in Creatio. Reach your contacts at
any time and get more details about the customer case. You can view the
**history of customer service** for each account and contact.

Fig. 2 Account page

![Fig. 2 Account page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_account_page.png)

Learn more:
[Communications](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/communications).

### Case management​

Use the **Cases** section to process support cases of internal and external
customers. Creatio includes manual and automated case registration. For example,
when an employee encounters a problem, they can register a case manually.
Creatio can register a case automatically based on a call, email, request from a
landing page, or message from an external user.

Use Service Creatio to manage the entire service life cycle using preconfigured
case management processes or dynamic cases that enable agents to handle service
cases flexibly. Agents can escalate cases to resolve incidents of any complexity
level quickly.

The Creatio **AI technology** can speed up case routing. For cases registered
from the emails to the support service, the system will automatically determine
the service, and assignee group.

Service Creatio provides tools for gathering and processing **feedback** to
ensure better quality of provided services. Set up feedback collection from your
customers using CSAT, NPS or any other metrics that your company uses.

Fig. 3 Case page

![Fig. 3 Case page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_case_page.png)

Learn more:
[Case Management](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/case-management).

### Knowledge base​

You can use Service Creatio together with a unified **knowledge base** that
accelerates case resolution. Enrich your knowledge base with answers to the
frequently asked questions, equipment specs, and other sought-after information.
You can also set up different access levels for the items in the knowledge base
and their relations. The answers will be easy to find for everyone, including
your customers, partners, and agents.

Fig. 4 Knowledge base page

![Fig. 4 Knowledge base page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_knowledge_base_page.png)

Learn more:
[Knowledge Management](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/knowledge-management).

### Activities​

Agents can use the **Calendar** and **Tasks** sections to better organize their
workflow. Managers can use these sections to keep track of employee performance
and optimize the workload of your support center.

Fig. 5 Calendar page

![Fig. 5 Calendar page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_calendar_page.png)

Learn more:
[Productivity](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/productivity).

### Service level management​

The "**Services** " section of Service Creatio provides a single storage for the
services provided regardless of the size of your support service and the scale
of your infrastructure. The "**Service agreements** " section lets you arrange
different service levels for customers and partners.

Learn more:
[Case Management](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/case-management).

### Unified service center​

Set up **case queues** in Service Creatio to manage the flow of cases with their
priorities and other parameters in mind. Configure different queues based on
your company’s operational standards for service agents. For example, you can
use filters to set up dynamic queues or add explicitly specified records to
static queues. A queue can be either open or closed. Open queues enable agents
to select a case record while closed queues hide case records until the agent
starts working on the case. Service Creatio also enables users to delete cases
from queues if they no longer require processing, distribute workload between
agents, and assign case owners for processing specific queue items.

The **Agent desktop page** in Service Creatio enables support agents to
streamline their workflow greatly. Employees can use the desktop page to process
case queues, communicate with customers, route cases, exchange data in the feed
area, and track their KPI.

Fig. 6 Agent desktop page

![Fig. 6 Agent desktop page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_agent_desktop_page.png)

Learn more:
[Contact center tools](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/contact-center-tools).

Your customers and partners can use the **sections available for external
users** to register cases by themselves, find solutions in the knowledge base,
and provide feedback without delay thanks to working in the same environment as
support. This can decrease the load on your support service units by giving the
users convenient self-service tools.

Learn more:
[Access management](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/setup-and-administration/category/access-management).

### Service efficiency evaluation​

The analytics tools in Service Creatio provide real-time assessment of the
workflow dynamics. You have complete access to information about the most
popular services and their quality, thorough customer case statistics, and
individual KPI of each employee. You can visualize stats in multiple ways,
including charts, calculated indicators, and special lists.

The analytics is available in the following areas:

- **Agent homepage**. This page displays the comprehensive KPIs of a specific
  agent, such as the number of cases waiting for response, active cases by
  priority, and activity by day.

- **Agent desktop**. This page displays the most important KPIs for the agent,
  such as active cases, number of processed cases, and average rating.

You can customize existing dashboards. It is also possible to add new analytics
widgets to any Freedom UI page in a few clicks.

Fig. 7 Dashboard page

![Fig. 7 Dashboard page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/service_creatio_overview/scr_dashboard_page.png)

Learn more:
[Analytics](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/no-code-customization/category/analytics).

### AI tools​

Use AI tools to speed up routine tasks and increase the performance of your
employees. Service Creatio includes the following machnie learning models:

- The **lookup field** value prediction models that can be used to predict case
  service, group, and priority as part of initial case processing.
- The **text similarity** prediction model that can be used to search for
  similar cases and help agents to find the solution for the current case.

Learn more:
[AI tools](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/no-code-customization/category/ai-tools).

### Creatio Marketplace plugins, addons and templates​

**Creatio Marketplace** provides hundreds of out-of-the-box software solutions,
connectors, extensions, plugins, addons and templates for Creatio products,
including items that help you expand your service center.

Use Creatio Marketplace to get a ready-made solution immediately, speeding up
system integration and adaptation.

You can also use the Creatio Marketplace platform to share your own apps and
monetize them.

- Features
  - 360° customer view
  - Multi-channel service
  - Case management
  - Knowledge base
  - Activities
  - Service level management
  - Unified service center
  - Service efficiency evaluation
  - AI tools
  - Creatio Marketplace plugins, addons and templates
