# Marketing Creatio overview | Creatio Academy

**Category:** development **Difficulty:** beginner **Word Count:** 1400 **URL:**
https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/8.2/overview/marketing-creatio-overview

## Description

Marketing Creatio is an omnichannel platform that lets you capture and nurture
leads.

## Key Concepts

business process, workflow, freedom ui, section, detail, dashboard, integration,
database, campaign, lead

## Use Cases

building applications, custom development, API integration, system
administration, user management

## Content

This is documentation for Creatio **8.2**.

For up-to-date documentation, see the
**[latest version](/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/overview/marketing-creatio-overview)**
(8.3).

Version: 8.2Marketing

On this page

**Marketing Creatio** is an omnichannel platform that lets you capture and
nurture leads.

Marketing Creatio functionality is based on the Creatio no-code platform. The
composable architecture enables the functionality to naturally synergize with
other Creatio apps and products as well as ready-made solutions on
[Creatio Marketplace](https://marketplace.creatio.com/).

With drag-and-drop UI designer, employees that do not have a technical
background can expand the workflow in no time without any coding. Creatio
platform also includes a comprehensive business process designer.

Currently, the product includes the following **composable apps** :

- Customer 360
- Productivity
- Knowledge Base
- Email Marketing
- Lead Generation
- Digital Ads
- Event Management

## Features​

- 360° customer view and customer base segmentation

- Lead generation

- Landing pages

- Tracking website events and lead sources

- Marketing campaign automation

- Ad campaign evaluation

- Managing multi-channel campaigns

- Email marketing

- Managing events

- Activity management

- Marketing efficiency evaluation

- AI tools

- Creatio Marketplace out-of-the-box solutions, plugins, addons and templates

Marketing Creatio includes all technologies and tools available in Creatio
platform. Learn more:
[Platform overview](https://academy.creatio.com/node/754773/takecourse).

### 360° customer view and customer base segmentation​

Marketing Creatio lets you create and maintain an extensive and detailed
customer database. You can add new customers manually, import contacts from an
Excel file, or set up automatic registration of new contacts from landing pages.
Creatio also maintains the integrity and relevance of your contact dataset by
regularly identifying and merging duplicate contact profiles.

The **Contacts** section provides 360° customer view, complete with
socio-demographic data, communication options, preferred communication channels,
history of customer activity (both shopping and non-shopping), website behavior,
communications and lead registration by channel. The customer contact page also
includes a complete history of customer interaction with email campaigns and
bulk emails.

Marketing Creatio tools let you segment your customer database into dynamic
folders. Use complex sets of conditions to set the target audience for your
marketing campaigns and use ultra-personalized communications.

Fig. 1 Contact page

![Fig. 1 Contact page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_contact_page.png)

Learn more:
[Customer 360](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/customer-360).

### Lead generation​

You can capture leads in Marketing Creatio in multiple ways: Facebook, LinkedIn,
standalone landing pages, incoming email messages, etc. When creating a new
lead, Creatio verifies data accuracy and uniqueness. If necessary, new contact
records will be added.

Learn more:
[Lead generation](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/lead-generation).

### Landing page integration​

You can create your own landing pages that are integrated into Creatio from the
get go using visual drag-and-drop Landing Page Designer. Creatio can also update
customer and lead database whenever a **customer submits a web form** on your
standalone website. For example, after a user submits a web form, Creatio can
**register a new lead, contact, or event participant**.

Fig. 2 Landing Page Designer

![Fig. 2 Landing Page Designer](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_landing_page_designer.png)

Learn more:
[Lead generation from landing pages and web forms](https://academy.creatio.com/documents?id=2504).

### Tracking website events and lead sources​

You can view dynamic data about user interactions and detailed page-level
insights using the **Web analytics** section. Creatio can also import data of
Google Analytics or Matomo services that **track website activity of customers**
who fill out web forms. The imported data is displayed in the contact profile.
The lead and the contact history displays the **full scope of activities** ,
including both individual website actions and entire web sessions. The lead
channel and source information will be **updated** accordingly.

This will help generate a much more detailed customer profile that you can use
to design highly personalized communications. Lead channel and source
information are instrumental in identifying the most promising channels and
increasing the pool of prospects.

Learn more:
[Website tracking](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/website-tracking).

### Ad campaign evaluation​

Use the **Ad campaigns** section to import data of your Facebook Ads and Google
Ads campaigns to Creatio and use the powerful set of Creatio analytics tools to
analyze the efficiency of your ads in a single place.

Fig. 3 Ad campaigns section

![Fig. 3 Ad campaigns section](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_ad_campaigns_section.png)

Learn more:
[Digital Ads](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/digital-ads).

### Managing multi-channel campaigns​

Automated marketing campaigns are the key tool in the arsenal of a modern
marketer. They let you coordinate the **full range of personalized
communications via multiple channels**. Use the Marketing Creatio visual
**Campaign Designer** to build scenarios of varying complexity. Branch your
campaign flow based on customer behavior and take the customer responses into
consideration. Easily schedule personalized communications for the customer’s
optimal local time using their preferred communication channel.

Fig. 4 Campaign Designer

![Fig. 4 Campaign Designer](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_campaign_designer_page.png)

Learn more:
[Marketing campaigns](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/marketing-campaigns).

### Email marketing​

Built-in **integration with high-end email services** makes it possible to send
out emails to millions of recipients. You can use ready-made connectors to the
**most popular cloud bulk email services** to expand the email provider list.
Schedule bulk emails for a specific time or create trigger emails to let Creatio
send an email whenever the customer’s behavior warrants another marketing
communication.

The **drag-and-drop Email Designer** for bulk emails makes it easy to create
nice-looking and engaging templates. Personalize the content using macros. Set
up dynamic content to generate marketing emails whose structure is tailored to
different target audience segments. A single template can display different
content based on the segment of each recipient. Personalize your emails based on
the customer demographics and behavior, and Creatio will ensure that your
subscribers receive only relevant emails.

Fig. 5 Email Designer

![Fig. 5 Email Designer](https://d3a7ykdi65m4cy.cloudfront.net/ac-en/s3fs-public/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_email_designer.png)

Learn more:
[Email marketing](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/email-marketing).

### Managing events​

The **Events** section of Marketing Creatio lets you manage promotions, such as
trade shows, forums, webinars, and other online and offline events that you
organize or in which you participate. You can record the event dates, allocate
budgets and form teams, segment the target audience, and track responses by each
event.

Fig. 6 Event page

![Fig. 6 Event page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_event_page.png)

Learn more:
[Marketing events](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/marketing-events).

### Activity management​

You can use the **Calendar** and **Tasks** sections to keep track of all your
tasks and meetings in a single place and ensure your workflow is as efficient as
possible.

Fig. 7 Calendar page

![Fig. 7 Calendar page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_calendar_page.png)

Learn more:
[Productivity](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/creatio-apps/category/productivity).

### Marketing efficiency evaluation​

In addition to a set of **ready-made analytical dashboards** , Marketing Creatio
includes highly customizable tools for creating custom analytics, such as
Freedom UI charts and reports. Ready-made analytics provides complete
information about the campaign and event results, the success rate of lead
nurturing, and bulk emails, down to each individual response. You can visualize
stats in multiple ways, including charts, calculated indicators, and special
lists.

The analytics is available in the following areas:

- **Analytics** **view** of certain Creatio sections. This view displays the
  general stats for section records (taking the current filters into account),
  for example, campaign dynamics and audience, lead generation channels, or the
  list of upcoming events.

- On **record pages**. You can display analytical data on a per-record basis.
  For example, a bulk email page provides sending and delivery charts,
  individual recipient responses, the click heatmap, and the click-through rate
  for the currently opened email campaign, as opposed to similar rates for all
  emails in the section.

- In the "**Dashboards** " **section**. The section displays Creatiowide
  analytics based on data from different Creatio sections, for example, the
  lead-to-revenue funnel, the list of employees of the month, event totals, etc.

You can customize existing dashboards. It is also possible to add new analytics
widgets to any Freedom UI page in a few clicks.

Fig. 8 Dashboard page

![Fig. 8 Dashboard page](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/sites/en/files/images/Overview/marketing_creatio_overview/scr_dashboard_page.png)

Learn more:
[Analytics](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/no-code-customization/category/analytics).

### AI tools​

Use AI tools to speed up routine tasks and increase the performance of your
employees. Marketing Creatio includes the **lead predictive scoring model** that
rates the quality of your leads based on the customer needs, lead engagement
data, customer data, and customer service history. The predictive score is
calculated according to the scale from 1 to 100 points. You can display the
obtained value on the record page as a numeric field or a chart.

Learn more:
[AI tools](https://academy.creatio.com/docs/8.x/no-code-customization/category/ai-tools).

### Creatio Marketplace plugins, addons, and templates​

**Creatio Marketplace** provides hundreds of out-of-the-box software solutions,
connectors, extensions, plugins, addons and templates for Creatio products,
including items that help you improve your marketing capabilities.

Use Creatio Marketplace to get a ready-made solution immediately, speeding up
system integration and adaptation.

You can also use the Creatio Marketplace platform to share your own apps and
monetize them.

- Features
  - 360° customer view and customer base segmentation
  - Lead generation
  - Landing page integration
  - Tracking website events and lead sources
  - Ad campaign evaluation
  - Managing multi-channel campaigns
  - Email marketing
  - Managing events
  - Activity management
  - Marketing efficiency evaluation
  - AI tools
  - Creatio Marketplace plugins, addons, and templates
